Sometimes I just feel it helps that little bit to know there are others out there who have been through challenges similar 
to us women in STEM - looking at STEM, tech, business leaders can help inspire and uplift and sharpen focus. 

So I'm making this list to refer to for when I, or anyone else out there who finds it helpful, need a little inspiration or guidance.



1. Leda Braga, Systematica - made the leap from sell side to buy side in a leadership role 
at Bluecrest when she was pregnant. Years later spun out of this role to start her
own fund - Systematica. She has made significant contributions to the quant finance industry. 
As of 2023, she has over 30 years of experience, and has established herself as 
a prominent figure in the world of quantitative investment. Materials Engineering 
PhD from Imperial College.

2. Ada Lovelace  - Born: 10 December 1815
Ada Lovelace is considered the first computer programmer. 
Even though she wrote about a computer, the Analytical Engine, that was never built, 
she realized that the computer could follow a series of simple instructions, a program, to perform a complex calculation.
English mathematician and writer, chiefly known for her work on Charles Babbage's proposed 
mechanical general-purpose computer, the Analytical Engine. 
She was the first to recognise that the machine had applications beyond pure calculation.  


3. Creola Katherine Johnson - portrayed in the movie Hidden Figures with her more commonly known name Katherine Johnson. 
An American mathematician whose calculations of orbital mechanics as a NASA employee were
critical to the success of the first and subsequent U.S. crewed spaceflights. 
A literal computer, a human computer (wow!), Katherine calculated the trajectory for the first spaceflight for an American
- for astronaut Alan Shepard's 1961 Freedom 7 mission to space. 



4. Marie Curie 
The first woman to win a Nobel Prize, 
the first person to win a Nobel Prize twice, and the only person to win a Nobel 
Prize in two scientific fields. 
- Notable for her discovery of radium and polonium, and huge contribution to 
finding treatments for cancer - a Polish and naturalized-French physicist and chemist 
who conducted pioneering research on radioactivity.


5. Claudia Goldin 
Harvard professor who was awarded the Nobel Prize in economics in 2023 for her research on women at work.
The prize was given "for having advanced our understanding of women's labour market outcomes".
She is the third woman to win the award, and the first woman to win the award solo.
She is a co-director of the National Bureau of Economic Research's (NBER) Gender in the Economy Study Group 
and was the director of the NBER's Development of the American Economy program from 1989 to 2017. 
Goldin's research covers a wide range of topics, including the female labor force, 
the gender gap in earnings, income inequality, technological change, education, and immigration.


6. Kiran Shaw
Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw (born 23 March 1953) is an Indian billionaire entrepreneur. She is the executive chairperson
and founder of Biocon Limited and Biocon Biologics Limited, a biotechnology company based in Bangalore and the former 
chairperson of Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore. In 2014, she was awarded the Othmer Gold Medal 
for outstanding contributions to the progress of science and chemistry. Biocon is the first company in
the world to commercialise recombinant human insulin (rh-insulin), Insugen®, using a novel Pichia 
pastoris yeast expression system. Today, Biocon's rh-insulin is approved in over 40 countries.

7. Marissa Ann Mayer
Google's first female engineer and 20th employee, Marissa Mayer spent 13-years at the tech company.
She started out writing code and overseeing small teams of engineers, developing and designing Google's search offerings.
American business executive and investor who served as president and chief executive
officer of Yahoo! from 2012 to 2017 (aged 37) She was a long-time executive, usability leader and key spokesperson for 
Google. Mayer later co-founded Sunshine, a startup technology company focused on artificial intelligence and consumer media.

6. Lisa Su
Lisa Su is a Taiwanese-born American business executive and electrical engineer, 
who is the president, chief executive officer and chair of AMD.
Prior to serving as chair and CEO, she was the chief operating officer responsible for 
integrating AMD’s business units, sales, global operations and infrastructure 
enablement teams into a single market-facing organization responsible for all aspects of product strategy and execution.


7. Mallika Srinivasan
Indian industrialist. The chairperson and managing director of Tractors and Farm Equipment Limited, 
a company she is known to have led to its present status with revenues of INR 96 billion 
with diverse interests in tractors, farm machinery, diesel engines and more. Malika earned her degree in Mathematics from the
Women's Christian College and later was a university gold-medalist in Econometrics from the University of Madras.
She is additionally on the Global Board of U.S.-India Business Council (USIBC), and the Boards of AGCO Corporation
- United States. She is a core member of the BRICS Women’s Business Alliance (BRICS WBA) and a member of India-US CEO Forum.


8. Jane Goodall - Transforming Primatology and Wildlife Conservation:
Jane Goodall, a British primatologist, revolutionized the study of chimpanzees and our understanding of the animal kingdom. 
Her groundbreaking research in Gombe Stream National Park in Tanzania provided insights into primate behavior and the
conservation of endangered species. Goodall's efforts to protect wildlife and habitat led to 
the establishment of the Jane Goodall Institute, dedicated to wildlife conservation, research, and education.

9. Grace Hopper - A Pioneer in Computer Programming:
Grace Hopper, an American computer scientist and naval officer, is often credited with the development of the first compiler, 
a program that translates human-readable code into machine code. Her work on the UNIVAC I computer laid the groundwork for 
modern programming languages. Hopper's innovations in computer science and her leadership in the field of
software development made her a trailblazer for women in STEM and a decorated military officer.

10. Rosalind Elsie Franklin
A British chemist and X-ray crystallographer whose work was central to the understanding of the molecular 
structures of DNA, RNA, viruses, coal, and graphite. Brilliant and trailblazing scientist whose Photo 51 
revealed the double helix of DNA — a discovery that was essential in unlocking the mystery
to how life is passed down from generation to generation. 
Franklin's photograph, labelled 51, 
taken of B-DNA in 1952, was the first proof of the double helical structure of DNA.

11. Barbara McClintock - Pioneer in Genetics:
Barbara McClintock was an American geneticist who made significant contributions to the understanding of genetics. 
Her groundbreaking work on maize genetics led to the discovery of transposons or "jumping genes," which can move within
the DNA and influence genetic traits. For her pioneering research, she received the Nobel Prize in Physiology
in 1983, becoming the first and only woman to win an unshared Nobel Prize in that category.

12. Maryam Mirzakhani 
An Iranian mathematician and a professor of mathematics at Stanford University. 
Her research topics included Teichmüller theory, hyperbolic geometry, ergodic theory,
and symplectic geometry. On 13 August 2014, Mirzakhani was honored with the Fields Medal, 
the most prestigious award in mathematics,becoming the first woman to win the prize, 
as well as the first Iranian. The award committee cited her work in 
"the dynamics and geometry of Riemann surfaces and their moduli spaces". 

13. Susan Solomon 
Susan Solomon is well-known for her career at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
and is a respected leader in atmospheric science. In the 1980s, Solomon and her colleagues were the 
first to pinpoint the cause of the Antarctic ozone hole – chlorofluorocarbons.

14. Gabrielle Émilie Le Tonnelier de Breteuil, Marquise du Châtelet (17 December 1706 – 10 September 1749) 
Émilie du Châtelet was a French natural philosopher and mathematician from the early 1730s until her death due to complications 
during childbirth in 1749. Her most recognized achievement is her translation of and commentary on 
Isaac Newton's 1687 book Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica containing basic laws of physics. 
The translation, published posthumously in 1756, is still considered the standard French translation.
Her commentary includes a contribution to Newtonian mechanics—the postulate of an additional 
conservation law for total energy, of which kinetic energy of motion is one element. 
This led her to conceptualize energy, and to derive its quantitative relationships to the mass and 
velocity of an object.

15. Mae Jemison
Mae Carol Jemison (born October 17, 1956) is an American engineer, physician, and former NASA astronaut. 
She became the first African-American woman to travel into space when she served as a mission specialist 
aboard the Space Shuttle Endeavour in 1992. Jemison joined NASA's astronaut corps in 1987 and was selected
to serve for the STS-47 mission, during which the Endeavour orbited the Earth for nearly eight days on 
September 12–20, 1992.  Born in Alabama and raised in Chicago, Jemison graduated from Stanford 
University with degrees in chemical engineering as well as African and African-American studies. 
She then earned her medical degree from Cornell University. Jemison was a doctor for the Peace
Corps in Liberia and Sierra Leone from 1983 until 1985 and worked as a general practitioner. 
Later, in pursuit of becoming an astronaut, she applied to NASA.


16. Tu Youyou
A Chinese chemist who discovered a treatment for malaria and won the Nobel Prize.
- a malariologist and pharmaceutical chemist. She discovered artemisinin 
and dihydroartemisinin, used to treat malaria, a breakthrough in twentieth-century tropical medicine,
saving millions of lives in South China, Southeast Asia, Africa, and South America.

17.  Radia Perlman - "Mother of the Internet"
American computer programmer and network engineer.
In 1985, Radia Perlman developed STP which paved the way for the internet. She is a major
figure in assembling the networks and technology to enable what we now know as the internet. 
She is most famous for her invention of the Spanning Tree Protocol (STP), 
fundamental to the operation of network bridges, while working for Digital Equipment Corporation, 
thus earning her nickname "Mother of the Internet"

18. Florence Nightingale  (12 May 1820 – 13 August 1910)
- an English social reformer, statistician and the founder of modern nursing. 
Nightingale came to prominence while serving as a manager and 
trainer of nurses during the Crimean War, in which she organised care for wounded soldiers at Constantinople.
Nightingale was a pioneer in statistics; she represented her analysis in graphical forms to ease drawing
conclusions and actionables from data. She is famous for usage of the polar area diagram, also called
the Nightingale rose diagram, equivalent to a modern circular histogram. 
This diagram is still regularly used in data visualisation.

19. Beatrice Shilling OBE (8 March 1909 – 18 November 1990)
Beatrice Shilling was a British aeronautical engineer, motorcycle racer 
and sports car racer. In 1949, Shilling was made an Officer 
of the Order of the British Empire. During the Second World War Shilling 
designed the RAE Restrictor (which became known as Miss Shilling's orifice), 
a simple device that overcame the problem of the Rolls-Royce Merlin aeroplane 
engines losing power during negative-g manoeuvres. After the war, Shilling also 
worked on the Blue Streak missile, researched the effect of a wet runway upon braking, 
and helped design and build a bobsled for the Royal Air Force's Olympic team.
As a motorcycle racer Shilling was one of only three women to receive the British
Motorcycle Racing Club Gold Star for lapping the Brooklands circuit at over 100 
miles per hour (160 km/h) on a motorcycle. In sports car racing, she scored several 
podium finishes at the Goodwood Circuit Members' Meetings.

20. Lisa Meitner 
